Add "Inline Replies" sections to "Displaying a Notification" and "Notification behavior" blog posts (#9064)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/push-notifications-display-a-notification/index.md

- Test the size and see what works for you. 128px × 128px works well on Android for me but was poor
  quality on desktop.
- Expect your action icons not to be displayed at all.

The Notification spec is exploring a way to define multiple sizes of icons, but it looks like it'll
be some time before anything is agreed upon.

### Actions (Inline Replies)

You can add an inline reply to the notification by defining an action with the `'text'` type:

```js/8-13
const title = 'Alexey Rodionov';

const options = {
  body: 'How are you doing? )',
  image: '/images/demos/avatar-512x512.jpg',
  icon: '/images/demos/icon-512x512.png',
  badge: '/images/demos/badge-128x128.png',
  actions: [
    {
      action: 'reply',
      type: 'text',
      title: 'Reply',
      icon: '/images/demos/action-5-128x128.png',
    }
  ],
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

This is what it will look like on Android:

{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/Ph3WKnKo7I2qIZdHSmzO.png", alt="Notification on Android with a reply action button", width="800", height="304" %}

Clicking on the action button opens a text input field:

> {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/3eVno9EWU28kN2DP2xIT.png", alt="Notification on Android with an opened text input field", width="800", height="330" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/3eVno9EWU28kN2DP2xIT.png", alt="Notification on Android with an opened text input field.", width="800", height="330" %}
```

You can customize the placeholder for the text input field:

```js/12
const title = 'Alexey Rodionov';

const options = {
  body: 'How are you doing? )',
  icon: '/images/demos/avatar-512x512.jpg',
  badge: '/images/demos/badge-128x128.png',
  actions: [
    {
      action: 'reply',
      type: 'text',
      title: 'Reply',
      icon: '/images/demos/action-5-128x128.png',
      placeholder: 'Type text here',
    }
  ],
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

> {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/dD8gIYQMO29voqF3qyHY.png", alt="Notification on Android with customized placeholder for text input field", width="800", height="330" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/dD8gIYQMO29voqF3qyHY.png", alt="Notification on Android with customized placeholder for text input field.", width="800", height="330" %}
```

In Chrome on Windows, the text input field is always visible without having to click the action
button:

> {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/qZhA529rWfVHzt7RVacJ.png", alt="Notification on Windows with a text input field and a reply action button", width="780", height="504" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/qZhA529rWfVHzt7RVacJ.png", alt="Notification on Windows with a text input field and a reply action button.", width="780", height="504" %}
```

You can add more than one inline reply or combine buttons and inline replies:

```js/8-18
const title = 'Poll';

const options = {
  body: 'Do you like this photo?',
  image: '/images/demos/cat-image.jpg',
  icon: '/images/demos/icon-512x512.png',
  badge: '/images/demos/badge-128x128.png',
  actions: [
    {
      action: 'yes',
      type: 'button',
      title: '👍 Yes',
    },
    {
      action: 'no',
      type: 'text',
      title: '👎 No (explain why)',
      placeholder: 'Type your explanation here',
    },
  ],
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

> {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/fKYyLvbAKghcnbmwEOfE.png", alt="Notification on Windows with a text input field and two action buttons", width="800", height="891" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/fKYyLvbAKghcnbmwEOfE.png", alt="Notification on Windows with a text input field and two action buttons.", width="800", height="891" %}
```

used as the notification body.

If a progressive web application is installed on the device, the web app name will be used instead
of the browser name:

// TODO: add new-2.png

If we ran the following code:

```js
const title = 'Simple Title';

const options = {
  body: 'Simple piece of body text.\nSecond line of body text :)',
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

we'd get this notification in Chrome on Linux:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/BZnd4sFC3XMq8yPUkYVz.png", alt="Notification with title and body text in Chrome on Linux.", width="380", height="117" %}

In Firefox on Linux it would look like this:

// FIXME: replace by original-1.png

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/hyJWXo3xO7AlrlE3I61F.png", alt="Notification with title and body text in Firefox on Linux.", width="521", height="74" %}

This is what the notification with a lot of text in the title and body looks like in Chrome on
Linux:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/MjZfnuD9h6MJLjv9enVi.png", alt="Notification with long title and body text in Chrome on Linux.", width="380", height="156" %}

> Interestingly, Firefox on Linux collapses the body text until you hover the notification, causing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Firefox on Linux collapses the body text until you hover the notification, causing
```

The same notifications in Firefox on Windows look like this:

// FIXME: replace by original-2.png

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/OQRchMO68ph6UV2Lovy0.png", alt="Notification with title and body text in Firefox on Windows.", width="562", height="281" %}

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/OQRchMO68ph6UV2Lovy0.png", alt="Notification with long title and body text in Firefox on Windows.", width="562", height="281" %}

As you can see, the same notification may look different in different browsers. It may also look
different in the same browser on different platforms.

Chrome and Firefox use the system notifications and notification center on platforms where these
are available.

For example, system notifications on MacOS don't support images and actions (buttons and inline
replies).

Chrome also has a custom notifications for all desktop platforms. You can enable it by setting a
`chrome://flags/#enable-system-notifications` flag to the `Disabled` state.

### Icon

The `icon` option is essentially a small image you can show next to the title and body text.

> In your code you just need to provide a URL to the image you'd like to load:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your code you need to provide a URL to the image you'd like to load:
```

```js/3
const title = 'Icon Notification';

const options = {
  icon: '/images/demos/icon-512x512.png',
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

> We get this notification in Chrome on Linux:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You get this notification in Chrome on Linux:
```

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/RBQH1QGLIRT9HxJTDjkj.png", alt="Notification with icon in Chrome on Linux.", width="380", height="100" %}

and in Firefox on Linux:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/EoS5ydulQRjq1nxTJxrA.png", alt="Notification with icon in Firefox on Linux.", width="522", height="75" %}

Sadly there aren't any solid guidelines for what size image to use for an icon.

[Android seems to want a 64dp image](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7220738/honeycomb-notifications-how-to-set-largeicon-to-the-right-size)
(which is 64px multiples by the device pixel ratio).

> If we assume the highest pixel ratio for a device will be 3, an icon size of 192px or more is a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming the highest pixel ratio for a device is 3, an icon size of 192px or more is a
```

Meaning an image of 72px or more should be good (assuming a max device pixel ratio of 3).

### Image

The `image` option can be used to display a larger image to the user. This is particularly
useful to display a preview image to the user.

```js/3
const title = 'Image Notification';

const options = {
  image: '/images/demos/unsplash-farzad-nazifi-1600x1100.jpg',
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

In Chrome on Linux the notification will look like this:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/xF6oPjieHKCqtvrsWfM7.png", alt="Notification with image in Chrome on Linux.", width="380", height="340" %}

In Chrome on Android the cropping and ratio are different:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/VF32ZZXDZj2xO7dJdR3W.png", alt="Notification with image in Chrome on Android.", width="800", height="554" %}

Given the differences in ratio between desktop and mobile, it's extremely hard to suggest
guidelines.

Since Chrome on desktop doesn't fill the available space and has a ratio of 4:3, perhaps the best
approach is to serve an image with this ratio and allow Android to crop the image. That being said,

> the `image` option is still new and this behavior may change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the `image` option may still change.
```

On Android, the only [guideline](https://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=36744) is a
width of 450dp.

Using this guideline, an image of width 1350px or more would be a good bet.

### Actions (Buttons)

You can define `actions` to display buttons with a notification:

```js/3-28
const title = 'Actions Notification';

const options = {
  actions: [
    {
      action: 'coffee-action',
      type: 'button',
      title: 'Coffee',
      icon: '/images/demos/action-1-128x128.png',
    },
    {
      action: 'doughnut-action',
      type: 'button',
      title: 'Doughnut',
      icon: '/images/demos/action-2-128x128.png',
    },
    {
      action: 'gramophone-action',
      type: 'button',
      title: 'Gramophone',
      icon: '/images/demos/action-3-128x128.png',
    },
    {
      action: 'atom-action',
      type: 'button',
      title: 'Atom',
      icon: '/images/demos/action-4-128x128.png',
    },
  ],
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

For each action you can define a `title`, an `action` (which is essentially an ID), an `icon`, and
a `type`. The title and icon is what you can see in the notification. The ID is used when detecting

> that the action button had been clicked (we'll look into this more in the next section). The type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that the action button had been clicked (more about this in the next section). The type
```

can be omitted because `'button'` is the default value.

At the time of writing only Chrome and Opera for Android support actions.

> In the example above we've defined 4 actions to illustrate that you can define more actions than

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example above there are four actions defined to illustrate that you can define more actions than
```

will be displayed. If you want to know the number of actions that will be displayed by the browser,
you can check `window.Notification?.maxActions`:

```js
const maxVisibleActions = window.Notification?.maxActions;

if (maxVisibleActions) {
  options.body = `Up to ${maxVisibleActions} notification actions can be displayed.`;
} else {
  options.body = `Notification actions are not supported.`;
}
```

On desktop, the action button icons display their colors (see the pink doughnut):

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/REyUtJ7icGvOoepXgpLQ.png", alt="Notification with action buttons on Chrome on Linux.", width="380", height="178" %}

> On Android 6, the icons are colored to match the system color scheme:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Android 6 and earlier, the icons are colored to match the system color scheme:
```

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/GI8sj9krxVtxWVeHGuvs.png", alt="Notification with action buttons on Chrome for Android.", width="800", height="296" %}

> On Android 7+, the action icons aren't shown at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Android 7 and later, the action icons aren't shown at all.
```

Chrome will hopefully change it's behavior on desktop to match Android (i.e. apply the
appropriate color scheme to make the icons match the system look and feel). In the meantime, you
can match Chrome's text color by making your icons have a color of `#333333`.

It's also worth calling out that icons look crisp on Android but **not** on desktop.

The best size I could get to work on desktop Chrome was 24px x 24px. This sadly looks out of place
on Android.

The best practice we can draw from these differences:

- Stick to a consistent color scheme for your icons so at least all your icons are consistently
  displayed to the user.
- Make sure they work in monochrome as some platforms may display them that way.

> - Test the size and see what works for you. 128px x 128px works well on Android for me but was poor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Test the size and see what works for you. 128px × 128px works well on Android for me but was poor
```

      placeholder: 'Type your explanation here',
    },
  ],
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

// TODO: add new-7.png

### Direction

The `dir` parameter allows you to define which direction the text should be displayed,
right-to-left or left-to-right.

In testing, it seemed that the direction was largely determined by the text rather than this
parameter. According to the spec, this is intended to suggest to the browser how to layout options
like actions, but I saw no difference.

Probably best to define if you can, otherwise the browser should do the right thing according to
the text supplied.

The parameter should be set to either `auto`, `ltr` or `rtl`.

A right-to-left language used on Chrome on Linux looks like this:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/epWm0UDjQzcRMz37uaaa.png", alt="Notification with right-to-left language on Chrome on Linux.", width="380", height="234" %}

In Firefox (while hovering over it) you'll get this:

{% Img src="image/C47gYyWYVMMhDmtYSLOWazuyePF2/ncKq2yMj7ipFkGGOWKBr.png", alt="Notification with right-to-left language on Firefox on Linux.", width="521", height="102" %}

### Vibrate

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> Support for [`vibrate` has been deprecated](https://crbug.com/971422) on Android 8+.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for [`vibrate` has been deprecated](https://crbug.com/971422) on Android 8 and later.
```

At the time of writing, no browser has support for this option.

```js/3
const title = 'Sound Notification';

const options = {
  sound: '/demos/notification-examples/audio/notification-sound.mp3',
};

registration.showNotification(title, options);
```

### Timestamp

Timestamp allows you to tell the platform the time when an event occurred that resulted in the push
notification being sent.

> The `timestamp` should be the number of milliseconds since 00:00:00 UTC, which is 1 January 1970
> (i.e. the UNIX epoch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `timestamp` should be the number of milliseconds since 00:00:00 UTC, which is 1 January 1970
(which is the UNIX epoch).
```
